Let's look at the solution to exercise 1 for lesson 3.
The first thing I want to do is make sure that Kafka and Redis are up and running.
I'm going to type ps-ef.
I don't see a process called Redis,
or a bunch of Java processes which usually tells me Kafka is running.
I'm going to click this ''Start'' button and that'll start both Kafka and Redis for me.
I see a spinning symbol.
That means Kafka is still starting up.
Now I'm back to a blinking cursor.
That means we've got Redis and Kafka.
So if I repeat this ps-ef I have
a Redis server running and I have several Java processes,
which tells me Kafka is probably up as well.
We talked about how if we have a Redis,
Kafka source connector, we can enable data to be
delivered to Kafka directly from Redis when data changes are made.
Let's look at how that works.
I'm going to connect to a topic called Redis-server
that's currently connected through Kafka Connect to the Redis database.
I'm going to cd to data, Kafka,
bin and ls there,
and I see a command Kafka console consumer that I'm going to use.
I'm going to say bootstrap server is localhost 9092.
The topic is Redis-server,
and I want from the beginning so I'll see
some data from earlier that was committed to Redis.
Then it just stops.
That's because there is no activity currently on
the application so I'm going to log into Redis manually.
I'm going to use the Redis CLI command,
which is under /data/Redis/Redis-stable/ src/redis-cli.
When I run the Redis CLI,
usually I'm going to give it the host name,
but it defaults to local host,
which will work for us.
I'm going to pass the password,
-a is the password flag and it's not really.
If I say keys,
I have three tables,
user, customer and customer location.
I'm going to create a fourth one and I'm going to use
the ZADD command that's going to put a new entry.
If I am putting it in an existing table,
then it'll add to it.
If it's a new table, it will create it on the fly.
I'm going to say zadd testkey,
and then the score which zero.
It's just an index and I'm just setting it to zero.
Then here's my test value.
Now, if I say keys I have four and If I say zrange testkey zero to minus one,
now I have that test value in that Redis collection.
I should see a new value pop-up in my topic.
If I come over here, sure enough here's
my new value and the key isn't really intelligible,
so I'm going to copy that value and then I'm going to paste it.
So I'm going to say echo and put it in quotes,
and then I'm going to pipe it to base64 with a -d flag.
You'll see base64 isn't the friendliest command.
It actually wraps around and it mixes with my username, which is root.
If you go to the left of my username,
you'll see the value that it decoded testkey.
Now, if I want to look at what I committed we're going to go into
my zSetEntries and find the first element,
and I'm going to copy the value there.
Now, I'm going to use the same technique.
I'm going to echo it in double quotes,
piping it to base64 with a -d for decode,
and before my username root I see the test value.
Now, we've experienced using the Redis Kafka source connector in action.
You can see that now the data is being piped into
my topic whenever and updates made to the Redis database.
That will make it possible for me to read from that topic in a spark application.
I'm going to kill this by hitting "Control C",
and then I'm going to exit out of my Redis command line with the word exit.